src/docs/faq.mdx, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## Visualize or Visualise

I must admit I have been wildly inconsistent here - but I'm not alone.

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_and_British_English_spelling_differences#-ise.2C_-ize_.28-isation.2C_-ization.29) has a pile of information here - as they say:

> The -ize spelling is often incorrectly seen as an Americanism in Britain. It has been in use since the 15th century, predating -ise by over a century.

However - language is defined by culture, usage, and readers, not by history.  I was brought up Australian, and am now living in the UK and on the path to dual citizenship - so I want to use British english, not due to anti-American sentiment, just because I like to use the language of the place where I live.

The Wikipedia article indicates "The ratio between -ise and -ize stood at 3:2 in the British National Corpus up to 2002" - and while the OUP and Oxford style guides suggest 'ize', they are outnumbered by other organisations.

Most importantly, I'm a huge fan of the UK Government Digital Services, and [their style guide](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/style-guide/a-to-z-of-gov-uk-style#american-and-uk-english) is good enough for me:

> ... use ‘organise’ not ‘organize’, ‘modelling’ not ‘modeling’, and ‘fill in a form’, not ‘fill out a form’.

**TL;DR**: I'm using 'visualise' and 'visualisation'

Commit message:

more docs, fixed todos, better info on layout

src/docs/faq.mdx, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## How do I scan multiple repositories

You can just check out your repositories into subdirectories of a common root - see [the scanner howto](/tools/scanner/howto#handling-multiple-repositories) for more details.

## How do I ignore junk

You can add special ignore files to the directories you are scanning, if you want to ignore generated files or config files or other irrelevant bits.  See [the scanner howto](/tools/scanner/howto#ignoring-files) for more details.

## Visualize or Visualise

I must admit I have been wildly inconsistent here - but I'm not alone.

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_and_British_English_spelling_differences#-ise.2C_-ize_.28-isation.2C_-ization.29) has a pile of information here - as they say:

> The -ize spelling is often incorrectly seen as an Americanism in Britain. It has been in use since the 15th century, predating -ise by over a century.

However - language is defined by culture, usage, and readers, not by history.  I was brought up Australian, and am now living in the UK and on the path to dual citizenship - so I want to use British english, not due to anti-American sentiment, just because I like to use the language of the place where I live.

The Wikipedia article indicates "The ratio between -ise and -ize stood at 3:2 in the British National Corpus up to 2002" - and while the OUP and Oxford style guides suggest 'ize', they are outnumbered by other organisations.

Most importantly, I'm a huge fan of the UK Government Digital Services, and [their style guide](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/style-guide/a-to-z-of-gov-uk-style#american-and-uk-english) is good enough for me:

> ... use ‘organise’ not ‘organize’, ‘modelling’ not ‘modeling’, and ‘fill in a form’, not ‘fill out a form’.

**TL;DR**: I'm using 'visualise' and 'visualisation'
