src/docs/voronoi-treemap.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Voronoi Treemaps and other layouts'
---

## What is a Voronoi Treemap?

a [Weighted Voronoi Diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weighted_Voronoi_diagram) is a way of subdividing an area into polygons, where the area of each polygon is (roughly) proportional to it's "weight".  I am using "cumulative lines of code" as weight, as generally we care more about large files than small - especially as there is much research to show correlations between code complexity and lines of code.

Here the yellow areas represent directories with hundreds of thousands of lines of code, the purple area near the middle is only a few hundred lines of code: (I did say 'roughly'!)

![Voronoi level 1](/images/voronoi/voronoi_1.png)

A Treemap is where we apply the same algorithm recursively to each subdirectory.  If you take the diagram above and show 2 levels of directories you get:

![Voronoi level 2](/images/voronoi/voronoi_2.png)

If you recursively apply this to subdirectories and sub-subdirectories and so on, you ultimately get:

![Voronoi level N](/images/voronoi/voronoi_n.png)

Note there are other treemap approaches - a much simpler and more common one is a [rectangular treemap](https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy#treemap) - I started with one of these but found it very confusing when dealing with large, deeply nested trees.

## What about those circles?

For some projects which consist of multiple sub-projects, I use a different layout for the top-level directory - a simple [circle pack](https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy#pack)

![Circle Pack](/images/voronoi/circle_pack.png)

Here each circle represents a single top-level directory.

They are still voronoi treemaps within each circle - it's just the first level that uses circle packing.

These look great - and size is still proportional to lines of code.  However, it only really works for one nesting level - if you nest circles within circles, the extra space between the circles means that the top-level circles are not in proportion to size.  It looks pretty, but again isn't very viable for deeply nested data.

## Highlighting a selection

When you click on a file in the explorer, the selected file, and it's parent and grandparent and so-on, are all drawn with a yellow border - this can help to visualise the underlying structure:

![Voronoi selection](/images/voronoi/voronoi_selection.png)

Here we have clicked on the file `src/analysis/processing/qgsalgorithmexportmesh.cpp` - the top level highlighted area is the `src` directory, the next is `src/analysis` and so on.

Commit message:

many changes to mostly be up to date with October tool changes, still needs more love

src/docs/voronoi-treemap.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Voronoi Treemaps and other layouts'
---

## What is a weighted voronoi treemap?

A [treemap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treemapping) is generally a way of representing a hierarchy of data in a recursive way.  A weighted treemap is weighted so that each node has area proportional to it's value - in our case, to the lines of code.

Traditional D3 treemaps are typically rectangular: <https://observablehq.com/@d3/treemap> - this is where I started out.  But rectangular maps get quite hard to understand visually - edges line up in ugly ways, and you can't really see what is a parent and what is a child.

Instead, I'm using a layout based on [Weighted Voronoi Diagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weighted_Voronoi_diagram) - which also have the property that each area shown is proportional to the value, but are much more organic.

## How is this a tree?

The Voronoi layout algorithm is applied recursively for each directory and subdirectory in the codebase.  For example, when laying out the [qgis codebase](http://polyglot-code-explorer.s3-website.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/) the first level is laid out like this:

![layout depth 1](/images/layouts/voronoi_1level.png)

where each segment is one top-level directory like `/src` or `/test`, with a size roughly proportional to the total lines of code inside that directory.

Then each segment of this diagram is subdivided with another voronoi layout:

![layout depth 2](/images/layouts/voronoi_2level.png)

Here each segment is a file or directory one layer deeper, such as `/src/core`

This continues until all files are mapped (though you can set a limit in the UI, with the 'display maximum depth' advanced option):

![layout depth 9](/images/layouts/voronoi_9level.png)

## What about those circles on some diagrams?

The layout tool has a command-line option `--circles` which uses [d3's circle packing algorithm](https://observablehq.com/@d3/circle-packing) for just the top layer of layout.

This is very useful for when you have multiple repositories - each repository (or each top-level directory at least) is shown as a circle, which makes the split between repositories clearer.

Circle packing still keeps areas proportional to "size" in terms of lines of code, as long as we only use the circle packing algorithm at the top level.

For example, the [openmrs codebase](http://polyglot-code-explorer-openmrs.s3-website.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/) is made up of many repositories - if you view just the top level circles, it looks like this:

![layout circles depth 1](/images/layouts/circles_1level.png)

Here each circle is a whole git repository.

Deeper layers are then laid out using the same Voronoi algorithm as above:

![layout circles depth 2](/images/layouts/circles_2level.png)

And so on, until the final layout is:

![layout circles depth N](/images/layouts/circles_nlevel.png)
