src/docs/tools/scanner/howto.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to run the Polyglot Code Scanner'
---

The code scanner is a rust command-line program - which means applications are compiled executable binary files, which you run from a terminal.

There are two ways to run the scanner - download a binary executable for your platform, or build it yourself from source.

*NOTE* I haven't been able to test the binary releases myself on many platforms, so if these don't work, you might have to revert to compiling yourself.  (Feel free to [raise an issue](https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner/issues) though, and I'll try to fix it)

## Fetching binary releases

Binary releases are published to <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner/releases>

You should be able to download the right file for your platform here.  Note I haven't tested this at all on Windows yet!  And I only have a single generic build for linux x86 and OSX - I can add more if there's demand.

### Getting it to work on mac OSX

OSX has a system to protect you from malware, called 'gatekeeper' - by default on OSX if you try to run the binary app, you'll get an error "app is from an unknown developer".  To bypass this I'd have to go through a complex extra stage of signing and bundling my tool as an application, which I'm avoiding for now.

If you are happy that the binary is safe - all the code that builds it is on github, so you should be able to inspect it yourself - you can run it by stripping the extra attributes that OSX adds when you download it, using `xattr`:

```sh
tar zxf polyglot-code-scanner-vwhatever-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
cd polyglot-code-scanner-vwhatever-x86_64-apple-darwin
xattr -d com.apple.quarantine polyglot_code_scanner
```

Then you can move the `polyglot_code_scanner` binary to whever you want.

If you don't want to trust the binary, follow the steps below to compile it yourself.

## Fetching code and compiling a binary

1. Get rust and cargo - instructions are at <https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install>
2. Clone or fork the project from <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner>
  
    Or you can fetch the source code for a particular release from <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner/releases>
3. test and build with `cargo` the rust packaging tool:

```sh
$ cargo test
# ... maybe some warnings but hopefully no failures
$ cargo build --release
# ... lots of messages and noise - compiling can be slow
$ ls -l target/release
total 14368
drwxr-xr-x  125 korny  staff     4000 28 Jul 15:09 build
drwxr-xr-x  891 korny  staff    28512 28 Jul 15:11 deps
drwxr-xr-x    2 korny  staff       64 20 Jun 15:20 examples
drwxr-xr-x    2 korny  staff       64 20 Jun 15:20 incremental
-rw-r--r--    1 korny  staff     1003 29 Jun 14:45 libpolyglot_code_scanner.d
-rw-r--r--    2 korny  staff  3062736 28 Jul 15:11 libpolyglot_code_scanner.rlib
-rwxr-xr-x    2 korny  staff  4280600 28 Jul 15:11 polyglot_code_scanner
-rw-r--r--    1 korny  staff     1063 29 Jun 14:45 polyglot_code_scanner.d

$ target/release/polyglot_code_scanner -V
polyglot_code_scanner 0.1.2
```

All you need to care about is the binary `polyglot_code_scanner` - that's what you need to run.  You can run it from the target directory or copy it somewhere useful.

(You can also run the project with `cargo run` but that's slower as it runs with debugging and without a lot of optimisation)

## Running it

You can run `polyglot_code_scanner -h` for command-line help.

Usually you will just run:

`polyglot_code_scanner --coupling -o json_file_name.json <source directory>`

### Important options

"--years <git_years>" - scan through this much history.  Git scanning can be slow, and often you only care about the last few years.

"--coupling" - enables temporal coupling.  This can be very very slow to calculate - if you don't want it, don't specify this option!  TODO: link to temporal coupling explanation

## Output file

See [Data Format](/tools/explorer/data-format) for a description of the output JSON file format.

It's not pretty printed to save space - if you want it pretty, the easiest thing is to install [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) and run:

```sh
jq < file.json | less
```

Commit message:

more docs, fixed todos, better info on layout

src/docs/tools/scanner/howto.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to run the Polyglot Code Scanner'
---

The code scanner is a rust command-line program - which means applications are compiled executable binary files, which you run from a terminal.

There are two ways to run the scanner - download a binary executable for your platform, or build it yourself from source.

*NOTE* I haven't been able to test the binary releases myself on many platforms, so if these don't work, you might have to revert to compiling yourself.  (Feel free to [raise an issue](https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner/issues) though, and I'll try to fix it)

## Fetching binary releases

Binary releases are published to <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner/releases>

You should be able to download the right file for your platform here.  Note I haven't tested this at all on Windows yet!  And I only have a single generic build for linux x86 and OSX - I can add more if there's demand.

### Getting it to work on mac OSX

OSX has a system to protect you from malware, called 'gatekeeper' - by default on OSX if you try to run the binary app, you'll get an error "app is from an unknown developer".  To bypass this I'd have to go through a complex extra stage of signing and bundling my tool as an application, which I'm avoiding for now.

If you are happy that the binary is safe - all the code that builds it is on github, so you should be able to inspect it yourself - you can run it by stripping the extra attributes that OSX adds when you download it, using `xattr`:

```sh
tar zxf polyglot-code-scanner-vwhatever-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
cd polyglot-code-scanner-vwhatever-x86_64-apple-darwin
xattr -d com.apple.quarantine polyglot_code_scanner
```

Then you can move the `polyglot_code_scanner` binary to whever you want.

If you don't want to trust the binary, follow the steps below to compile it yourself.

## Fetching code and compiling a binary

1. Get rust and cargo - instructions are at <https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install>
2. Clone or fork the project from <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner>
  
    Or you can fetch the source code for a particular release from <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-scanner/releases>
3. test and build with `cargo` the rust packaging tool:

```sh
$ cargo test
# ... maybe some warnings but hopefully no failures
$ cargo build --release
# ... lots of messages and noise - compiling can be slow
$ ls -l target/release
total 14368
drwxr-xr-x  125 korny  staff     4000 28 Jul 15:09 build
drwxr-xr-x  891 korny  staff    28512 28 Jul 15:11 deps
drwxr-xr-x    2 korny  staff       64 20 Jun 15:20 examples
drwxr-xr-x    2 korny  staff       64 20 Jun 15:20 incremental
-rw-r--r--    1 korny  staff     1003 29 Jun 14:45 libpolyglot_code_scanner.d
-rw-r--r--    2 korny  staff  3062736 28 Jul 15:11 libpolyglot_code_scanner.rlib
-rwxr-xr-x    2 korny  staff  4280600 28 Jul 15:11 polyglot_code_scanner
-rw-r--r--    1 korny  staff     1063 29 Jun 14:45 polyglot_code_scanner.d

$ target/release/polyglot_code_scanner -V
polyglot_code_scanner 0.1.2
```

All you need to care about is the binary `polyglot_code_scanner` - that's what you need to run.  You can run it from the target directory or copy it somewhere useful.

(You can also run the project with `cargo run` but that's slower as it runs with debugging and without a lot of optimisation)

## Running it

You can run `polyglot_code_scanner -h` for command-line help.

Usually you will just run:

`polyglot_code_scanner --coupling -o json_file_name.json <source directory>`

### Important options

"--years <git_years>" - scan through this much history.  Git scanning can be slow, and often you only care about the last few years.

"--coupling" - enables temporal coupling.  This can be very very slow to calculate - if you don't want it, don't specify this option!  TODO: link to temporal coupling explanation

## Handling multiple repositories

The scanner actually works in terms of directories and subdirectories, rather than really caring too much about git repositories.  (It's even possible to work with code without git data - in theory, though this is probably broken once you try to visualise the results)

So you can store git repositories _under_ the scanned root directory - it's quite common to check out every repository for a project as children of the root directory, and then use the `--circles` layout option to show those repositories as top-level circles in the explorer.

You can even go deeper - one project I worked on had a nested tree of directories and projects 2 or 3 levels under the root; the scanner handles this just fine.

## Ignoring files

The scanner automatically ignores any files that git ignores, using the standard `.gitignore` file mechanisms.

You can also add your own ignore files - at the root, or anywhere in subdirectories - the scanner will look for files called `.polyglot_code_scanner_ignore` files anywhere in the codebase, the syntax is [the same as .gitignore's](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore).

So for example if you want to ignore node.js junk, XML and CSV files you could add a `.polyglot_code_scanner_ignore` file at the root of your project with the content:

~~~
node_modules/
package-lock.json
yarn.lock
*.xml
*.csv
~~~

## Output file

See [Data Format](/tools/explorer/data-format) for a description of the output JSON file format.

It's not pretty printed to save space - if you want it pretty, the easiest thing is to install [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) and run:

```sh
jq < file.json | less
```
