src/docs/tools/layout/description.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Polyglot Code Offline Layout'
---

This is a quite hacky script to calculate weighted Voronoi Treemap layouts for JSON files produced by the polyglot-code-scanner program.


## What is a weighted voronoi treemap?

A [treemap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treemapping) is generally a way of representing a hierarchy of data in a recursive way so that each node has area proportional to it's value - in our case, to the lines of code.

Traditional D3 treemaps are typically rectangular: <https://observablehq.com/@d3/treemap> - this is where I started out.  But rectangular maps get quite hard to understand visually - edges line up in ugly ways, and you can't really see what is a parent and what is a child.

Instead, I'm using a tree based on [Weighted Voronoi Diagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weighted_Voronoi_diagram) - which also have the property that each area shown is proportional to the value, but are much more organic.

TODO: insert pretty pictures which will make this clearer

## Why offline?

There are two big problems with the libraries I am using:

1. They are slow for big diagrams - sometimes quite painfully slow
2. They are buggy!  Sometimes they go into infinite loops.  Sometimes they never reach a good solution.

I didn't have time or brain space to re-implement them - good Voronoi power diagram algorithms are beautiful and elegant, but quite complex.  So instead, I decided to cheat.  I run the layout algorithm in a loop - every time I start the loop, it uses different random starting points, so I keep going until I get a good enough solution - or if I have looped too many times, I give up and just choose the best solution I've seen so far.

This of course is even slower, so it's much easier to run it offline.

## What are the downsides?

Sometimes, the result still isn't very accurate.  Roughly speaking, areas of my diagrams are proportional to lines of code - but it's not always quite right.  That's why I still have a visualisation that highlights file size, so you don't have to trust your eyes.

Also the layout can't change in the UI.  You can't exclude files and re-draw the layout, or go back in time and re-draw the layout - whatever you got from this tool, you are stuck with.

## Which libraries am I using?

I'm using the generally quite nice libraries by LeBeau Franck - [d3-voronoi-treemap](https://github.com/Kcnarf/d3-voronoi-treemap), [d3-voronoi-map](https://github.com/Kcnarf/d3-voronoi-map) and [d3-weighted-voronoi](https://github.com/Kcnarf/d3-weighted-voronoi) - it's possible he'll fix the problems I've seen at some stage, and then I might ditch the offline processing.  Or someone else will produce a fast Voronoi implementation I can use.  Or I'll write one myself.

## What about circle packing?

If you specify the `-c` parameter to the layout script, the top level diagram is drawn with [circle packing](https://observablehq.com/@d3/circle-packing) - this is a very pretty layout, but leaves a lot of wasted space between circles.  It's nice for a top-level layout, I don't like it for a treemap though as the maps can be huge - also parent circles don't have the area of the sum of their children, because of all the extra space.

## Have you considered other algorithms?

I tried rectangular treemaps first - I don't like them much.

I'd love to try a [Gosper treemap](https://blockbuilder.org/nitaku/8787855) just because I love fractals.  If I find the time.  It might also solve the speed problem - but it's not as easy on the eyes for a deeply nested tree as the Voronoi layout, I tend to think.

TODO: this page desperately needs sample pictures!

Commit message:

added a bunch of references, images, and cleaning up content

src/docs/tools/layout/description.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Polyglot Code Offline Layout'
---

*TODO: this page is largely a placeholder, it needs more content*

This is a quite hacky script to calculate weighted Voronoi Treemap layouts for JSON files produced by the polyglot-code-scanner program.

The source code is available at <https://github.com/kornysietsma/polyglot-code-offline-layout>

## What is a weighted voronoi treemap?

A [treemap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treemapping) is generally a way of representing a hierarchy of data in a recursive way so that each node has area proportional to it's value - in our case, to the lines of code.

Traditional D3 treemaps are typically rectangular: <https://observablehq.com/@d3/treemap> - this is where I started out.  But rectangular maps get quite hard to understand visually - edges line up in ugly ways, and you can't really see what is a parent and what is a child.

Instead, I'm using a tree based on [Weighted Voronoi Diagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weighted_Voronoi_diagram) - which also have the property that each area shown is proportional to the value, but are much more organic.

TODO: insert pretty pictures which will make this clearer

## Why offline?

There are two big problems with the libraries I am using:

1. They are slow for big diagrams - sometimes quite painfully slow
2. They are buggy!  Sometimes they go into infinite loops.  Sometimes they never reach a good solution.

I didn't have time or brain space to re-implement them - good Voronoi power diagram algorithms are beautiful and elegant, but quite complex.  So instead, I decided to cheat.  I run the layout algorithm in a loop - every time I start the loop, it uses different random starting points, so I keep going until I get a good enough solution - or if I have looped too many times, I give up and just choose the best solution I've seen so far.

This of course is even slower, so it's much easier to run it offline.

## What are the downsides?

Sometimes, the result still isn't very accurate.  Roughly speaking, areas of my diagrams are proportional to lines of code - but it's not always quite right.  That's why I still have a visualisation that highlights file size, so you don't have to trust your eyes.

Also the layout can't change in the UI.  You can't exclude files and re-draw the layout, or go back in time and re-draw the layout - whatever you got from this tool, you are stuck with.

## Which libraries am I using?

I'm using the generally quite nice libraries by LeBeau Franck - [d3-voronoi-treemap](https://github.com/Kcnarf/d3-voronoi-treemap), [d3-voronoi-map](https://github.com/Kcnarf/d3-voronoi-map) and [d3-weighted-voronoi](https://github.com/Kcnarf/d3-weighted-voronoi) - it's possible he'll fix the problems I've seen at some stage, and then I might ditch the offline processing.  Or someone else will produce a fast Voronoi implementation I can use.  Or I'll write one myself.

## What about circle packing?

If you specify the `-c` parameter to the layout script, the top level diagram is drawn with [circle packing](https://observablehq.com/@d3/circle-packing) - this is a very pretty layout, but leaves a lot of wasted space between circles.  It's nice for a top-level layout, I don't like it for a treemap though as the maps can be huge - also parent circles don't have the area of the sum of their children, because of all the extra space.

## Have you considered other algorithms?

I tried rectangular treemaps first - I don't like them much.

I'd love to try a [Gosper treemap](https://blockbuilder.org/nitaku/8787855) just because I love fractals.  If I find the time.  It might also solve the speed problem - but it's not as easy on the eyes for a deeply nested tree as the Voronoi layout, I tend to think.

TODO: this page desperately needs sample pictures!
